---
title: "May 2015: Month of flowers"
---

## Dear friends,

I won Camp NaNoWriMo with 50k, 4 finished short stories (1st drafts),
the beginning outline of something larger, and two more stories. I've
written and posted interviews with every main character except for two:

* [Helga Yngvesdotter](http://smaty.se/characters/helga-yngvesdotter)--an orphan seeking power
against the religious fanatics who slayed her father
* [Linda Wijk](http://smaty.se/characters/linda-wijk)--mathematically inclined student has to
    overcome her fear of snakes, or forever lose the woman she loves
* [Mio Singh](http://smaty.se/characters/mio-singh)--a trans person whose pain awakens the ghosts of a killer
    and her child-victims
* [Runfrid Hildrisdotter](http://smaty.se/characters/runfrid-hildrisdotter)--a grieving widow struggling with mental wounds, the pressure of honour, and a scheming brother-in-law intent on marrying her
* [Vanja Hulth](http://smaty.se/characters/vanja-hulth)--a trans person looking for themselves
and finding a curse of damnation hidden in the sweet sound of a fiddle

The two missing are the trans man Antonius who meets the gender queer Phoenix
when he explores the dream world he never knew until his missing mother's
diaries are unearthed, and Vieno, who flees her bullying cousins to the
honeysuckle-covered ruins on her mother's newly-inherited island.

### Happenings in May

I'm planning on working more on my site, in particular filling up the *Stories*
section. I've already relaunched my [gallery of inspiration](http://smaty.se/locations/gallery/)
on the new site.

In writing, I'm planning on finishing Vieno's story, and after that
launch into editing. The first story to be edited is going to be Antonious,
since it's the shortest story I've managed as of yet, so I'm hoping to
get it under 5k, and submit it to Vitaly Magazine.

### Teaser
*This is the second scene of Antonius story, 1st draft.*

<blockquote>

First class of the day was Swedish with Marianne. When our teacher joined us, she was trailed by someone I vaguely recognised, but certainly wasn’t part of our class.

“Sorry I’m late, I was getting our new student oriented. Meet Phoenix. Phoenix just transferred into the class.” The lack of pronouns sounded awkward, but as I stared at the new student I understood why.

While they didn’t have wings, their dream-self and real self were close in style. Purple lips matched the purple cornrows ending in a short afro, and the shade returned in details of the long skirt and masculine waistcoat accentuating their broad shoulders and narrow hips.

“Hello.” Phoenix’s gaze ran over the class. Their voice held the same timbre as it had in the dream. “As your teacher said, I’m Phoenix. In case you’re wondering, I’m genderfluid, which means I’m fluctuating between male and female. To be safe, use the pronoun ‘they’ if you want to talk about me.”

No one dared to speak or even move much, but several furtive glances were thrown my way. Not surprising, I hadn’t been full time male for even a year, so all my classmates still remembered me coming out.

“You can sit down,” Marianne glanced around the room, her gaze landing on the desk next to me. “Over there, by Antonius.” She fetched a book from the case by the window. “Here, you’ll probably want to read pages 20 through 30 at home, we’re on the Swedish national romantic era.” As Phoenix stalked over to the desk, Marianne continued. “Open your books to page 35 and read through the chapter excerpt from Gösta Berling’s Saga in silence.”

I tried to, but Phoenix’s startling blue gaze bore into my side. It made electricity dance over my skin, but in a good way. If they were going to sit next to me, it would be a long school year.

“So, your name is Antonius?” Their voice was barely audible, and they apparently knew how to speak without moving their lips. “You actually use your real name?” They shook their head lightly. “How many others have you told?”

“Only you, but—”

“Good, so you have some sense.” They flipped the book open, and I could finally focus on class.
</blockquote>


Enjoy May,

Marie
