---
title: "June 2015: Midsummer and vacation"
---

## Dear friends,

I had so much I had been planning on doing during May, but very little of it actually got done!

* [Shards of the Eld](http://smaty.se/stories/shards-of-the-eld/) had its page launched, and I'm half-way through the translation/rewriting into second draft material
* Awaiting Valhalla was sent to the editor who had solicited it, but she decided to not feature it
* [Mio Singh's story](http://smaty.se/characters/mio-singh/), the Angel Maker, is under revision. It's in beta reading now, which includes a Sikh woman critiquing it for the Sikh content. One of the changes based on her reading is that Mio will be renamed Satinder Singh
* I wrote "Solitary Duality" for an anthology, but as it was refused I will share it in this newsletter
* I'm starting to rebalance the story I intend to send to Vitality Magazine, though the main character has been renamed Jean
* Since I am openly non-binary, I will be writing under the pseudonym of Antonius M. Hogebrandt

For June, I'll be going on vacation right before Midsummer (which is June 20th this year), to visit my parents on the west coast. I'm expecting to get more pictures, since my Dad in particular likes my interest in the history.

I've started with Yoga, to hopefully get my hips and back to stop aching, so that's new and exciting! Today I'm sore and feel like I'm at least 150, but that'll pass too.

### Writing plans

* Finish the Shards of the Eld rewrite
* Complete the Angel Maker revisions (and query)
* Complete the dream world revisions (and query)
* Write a 4k word story for a short story competition
* Revise and post serie on how I revise my stories

### Teaser

<blockquote>

My peers mingle on the docks and streets below my mountainous perch. Music from the clubs littered along them blend into a cacophony of mating calls. I observe their rituals; alone.

Steps drum an even beat against the red granite. “I'm Dag.” His scent of sweat and musk flows over me.

“Go away. I'm not a girl.” In the distance, a boat sails towards the open ocean.

“I hope not.” The deep timbre of his voice sends shivers along my skin. “Do I want to know why you needed to say that?” He flashes white canines. I fiddle with my phone. He’ll probably go away in a moment. “Why did you?”

“The last hot guy thought I was a girl.” The moment the words leave my mouth I wince. Hot guy? Smooth, Yngve, real smooth.

“I don’t.” At the vividness of his blue eyes as he leers at me, I stare down at the phone again. “I’ll go if you want me to, though I prefer to stay.”

Come on, come on, say something witty. “Sure, if you want to.” Too late. I slip the phone away, my dignity dropping off the side of the cliff. “I'm Yngve.”

He's tanned, though not as dark as my sepia shade, with a ponytail the shade of rye to match his trimmed beard. He towers over me, with broad shoulders and slim hips.

“Nice to meet you.” His right arm hangs, unusable, at his side. “Why aren't you partying?”

I shrug. “I needed to get away. Some fresh air.” I run my fingers over my black mohawk. With his tight chinos and dress shirt I wish I looked fancier. Instead, I have torn jeans, a leather vest that obscures my forms, and enough studs and chains that Magneto would have an easy match with me.

“Something to do with hot guys thinking you’re a girl?” He flashes his canines at me again, offering me a hand up. “Let’s go down. We can dance.”

“Sure.” I wet my lips, butterflies somersaulting in my stomach. My legs tremble, and his fingers burn against my hand.

I was right. I reach his shoulders, only matching him in height if I count my mohawk. He slips his arm around me. My body goes stiff; what if he feels it? I pull away to lead us down the path.

Hot, gay—or at least bi—, and into me. What’s the catch?

***

We walk along the docks, and he slips his arm around me again. “Unless you don’t want me to?” His fingers burn through my vest and shirt.

“I want you to but …” I bite into my lip. Trite pop floats on the wind from a party. One of my classmates’ boat. “Dag, I’m trans.” I search his face, expecting him to pull away. Instead, he turns me to face him.

“That’s okay.” He caresses my side. “Look, I want to kiss you.” His hand slides along my body. I shiver. The world around us means nothing as I nod slowly.

His mouth tastes of the setting sun, and heat from his hand caressing my neck jolts my skin. Under my fingers, his shirt is soft. He tenses when I stroke his right shoulder. I wet my lips, gingerly not-touching his arm, but following its contour. My fingertips tingle.

“What happened? I know, it’s not my business—” He presses a calloused finger against my lips.

“I don’t talk about it much.” He averts his eyes, his hand exploring my skin. “War, a millennia or two ago.” Weariness drains his voice. Shell-shocked? He must’ve been young.

“I’m sorry.” I kiss the palm of his healthy hand.

“Let’s dance.” His muscular body presses against mine, and his hand stroking my shoulder is pure joy. I wrap my arms around his neck and savour his breath against mine.

May the night never end.

***

The music is silent. Dag and I rest together in a little alcove hidden on the ocean cliff.

“I should go home.” I don’t move from his lap.

He caresses my stomach. “Stay with me tonight?” Desperation bleeds through his deep voice. What is he afraid of?

“If … if I give you my number, will you call me?” He’s already cut through my protective shields. Leaving myself open to the final strike won’t hurt me more.

“No.” He keeps me in his lap. “I can’t. And I can’t explain why.”

I blink away tears. “Was it something I did?”

“Yngve, I will cherish tonight until the end of times.” He kisses my cheek.  “I have until dawn, and I … I can’t explain.” I stare into his eyes, and sincerity stares back. “Will you stay? Until dawn?”

What’s another heartbreak? My mouth finds his. His hand fumbles with the buttons of my vest. I caress his skin under his shirt as we kiss. Our bodies intertwine under the starlit sky.

The sun’s first rays tickle me awake. I’m alone. No, not alone. A giant wolf sits on the edge of the cliff. I want to scream, but I don’t.

His vivid, blue eyes bore into my soul, and I can’t breathe.

The wolf—large enough to ride—licks my hand. I stroke his right front leg, and under my fingers I track scars. Familiar paths leading up to a massive scar on his shoulder, though he doesn’t seem to be lame. How could this be? Shallow breaths—mine—echo in my head. I bury my hands in his grey fur. Shocked tears drizzle down my cheeks. “Good bye, Dag.”

He head-butts me, whuffling against my neck before he bounds up the path.

I am truly alone, with a memory I can never share.

</blockquote>

Enjoy June,

Antonius Marie
