---
title: "August 2015: Back to work"
---

## Dear friends,

First, I apologise for not having sent out a newsletter in July. I pretty much woke up like July 4th and went "huh, I think I forgot to do something ..." and decided to give it a summer holiday.

My writing plans, once again, were far too optimistic, even with two months to finish it rather than one, but that's how things are.

* Shards of the Eld is still needing to be translated/rewritten
* Angel Maker is resting while I revise other stories, but I've gotten good feedback on it
* The dream world story is in the final stage of revision, but unfortunately that's the stage that takes a lot out of me, namely wording-wording-wording-wording
* My series on how I revise is still being worked on, but I've shared it with a couple of friends who seem to think it's useful for them
* I have a [GoodReads profile](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/14109120.Antonius_M_Hogebrandt), since despite what my last newsletter said, *Solitary Duality* was accepted into Summer Nights
* I've rewritten the first "chapter" of Helga Ramn's story into a short story, with expansions to explore her and her surroundings a bit more before the actual novel starts, and it's out to betas currently
* For July camp I had been planning on writing more of a Young Adult novel, but after the first two chapters I lost steam and jumped to Helga instead. The novel is *Halfway-house of Souls* and is a ghost story centered around five broken teenagers at summer camp. Now that I've plotted out the scope of this novel (it's going to be a series), I'll be able to continue it

Now in August I don't really have much planned, apart from working and writing. My site is going to get a bit of a facelift, in that I've finally gotten the automatic sending-to-Buffer to work, and I'm forcing myself to add image headers to as many pages as I can.

I'm also going to be looking for a photographer to take a professional author photograph of me that I can spread around in various places, including my site.

### Writing plans

* Continue with Halfway-house of Souls
* Complete the Helga Ramn short story's revisions (and query)
* Complete Mentor of Dreams revisions (and query)
* Revise and post serie on how I revise my stories

### Around the web

I've been interviewed, and am going to be featured on two different sites.

* [Friday Phrases](http://www.friday-phrases.com/). I believe it is supposed to go up 3/8, and includes a piece of flashfiction that hasn't been published before
* [Asexual Artist Tumbler](http://asexualartists.tumblr.com/post/125537331622/interview-antonius-marie)

### Teaser

For this month, you'll get the first draft of an early scene in *Halfway-house of Souls*. While the draft is first present, the final story will be in third past, since it follows five different people.

<blockquote>

The scent of dust, closed-in quarters and years of wood stoves hit me as we step into the house. Since Sia doesn’t give me any particular instructions on where to start, I explore the house. Floor-boards creek under my feet, and I slow my steps in reverence. The house is watching me, judging my character. I feel it in the back of my spine, and the standing hairs on my neck.

“This is just the winter house.” Helene speaks softly by my ear, and I flinch.

“Stop scaring me like that.” A quick look confirms that I’m alone. “And how do you know that?”

“I paid attention in school.” Her touch against my shoulder burns through my shirt. “How long has this place been abandoned?”

“I didn’t ask.” I brush dust off of a chest of drawers, admiring the walnut carvings. “A long time, I guess.”

Judging from the furniture, I’ve wandered into a bedroom. The quilt covering the wide bed is still its original shades of red, but the rag rug below the window is bleached beyond recognition, except where an old hat box has protected it.

“Be careful, okay?” She tilts her head to the side, giving me that small smile that always lifted my heart. I hold out my hand, hoping that my senses will not betray me now. She takes it, and for a moment her touch is as real as the stained walls and uneven floor, but too soon she is gone again.

Tears gather in my eyes, and I fall to the floor, allowing the pain to overtake me. How long until I’m too crazy to be allowed out? How long until I’m the one seeing demons in every action?

Steps interrupt my thoughts, and Yngve raps on the door frame. “Hey, you okay?”

“Yeah.” I straighten up, hiding my emotions behind a cold voice. “Peachy. You wanted something?” I stare beyond him, hoping he won’t notice the tears.

“I’m sorry for yesterday. I didn’t mean to be an ass, but I was one.” A young woman stands behind him, with blood dyeing her kinky hair.

I suppress a shudder, mustering a smile. Anything to make him go away. “It’s okay, I guess.”

“You need a hand in here?” He joins me, but the woman behind him stays where she is and raises a finger to her lips. Why would she think I would tell him about what I see?

“No, I’m just exploring the house right now, to figure out where I want to start.” I shrug again. “If these walls could talk, etc.” Not that I want them to.

A thoughtful expression crosses his light brown features, but whatever he considered saying, it probably wasn’t what he said. “Well, just let me know. I’m going to start with lighter pieces downstairs.”

“I’ll go upstairs.” I flash him an uncomfortable smile, before hurrying out of the room. How much longer can I handle the macabre hallucination with him there? I don’t want to find out.

She follows me up the stairs and into the low attic without a word. I face her once we’re far out of sight and hearing.

“Who are you? Why aren’t you saying anything?” My hands shake, and my heart pounds in my chest, sending shivers of sweat over my skin.

The smile she gives me is kindly but sad, and she once again touches her lips with her finger. I can’t unsee the crushing wound on her head, the rope marks around her wrists, or the bloody tears in her jeans and blouse.

“Please, go away …” I sink to the floor again, tears streaming down my cheeks. Rope bite into my wrists and ankles, contorting my body painfully. I scream in pain as the heavy axe smashes the back of my skull.

Blissful darkness takes me.


</blockquote>

Enjoy August,

Antonius Marie
