---
title: "April 2015: Into Camp NaNoWriMo"
---

## Dear friends,

While spring is still slow here in Sweden (it snowed a few days last week), flowers and the birds suggest that it is at least on the way.

March was a good month which I mostly spent revising *Awaiting Valhalla*, a short story set in late 500s Scandinavia. I have finished a revision to add deep point of view in it, and am intending to send it to an interested party in the beginning of April.

I launched [my website](http://smaty.se), and have added two charcter interviews as of yet, one from the perspective of [Bóthildr](http://smaty.se/characters/bothildr-gudhleksdotter/), one of the secondary characters in *Awaiting Valhalla*, and the other from the perspective of [Mio Singh](http://smaty.se/characters/mio-singh/), main character of *The Angel Maker* (working title), a magical realism short story.

April is Camp NaNoWriMo month, and I have signed up to draft several short stories:

### The Angel Maker (working title)

**Genre**: Magical realism

Mio Singh is a non-binary trans person who converted to Sikhism around the time they understood what trans meant. They were assigned female at birth (AFAB), but is more trans masculine than feminine.

As a child of broken homes and foster families, Mio wants a family more than anything else, and thought that they would find it with Gabriel. When Mio became pregant, Gabriel took a while to accept the pregnancy, and to Mio's utter grief, they miscarried. Tormented by the loss, Mio cut off Gabriel (as well as their Sikh mentor) and fled to the west coast of Sweden, where the story begins.

Mio rents a cottage on an old island in the archipelago, and strange things seem to happen. Are there actually ghosts on the island, or has the trauma taken its toll?

### The Fiddler (working title)

**Genre**: Magical realism

Teenaged Vanja Hulth (AFAB), is moving to a new school, and tied into that is a feeling that the label *female* doesn't fit, though Vanja has not let their parents know about it. Vanja was supposed to get their own apartment (as their parents are going to Rwanda for volunteer work), but due to recent episodes of "acting out", Vanja is forced to move in with their grandfather Johannes, an old violin builder.

As it turns out, Johannes is probably among the best people for a trans person to live with, and things are seemingly calming down. That is, until the day Vanja practices their violin by the river, and is befriended by a mysterious and evasive man who amuses himself with pretending to be Näcken, a fiddle-playing entity whose music is said to draw people to a watery grave.

Vanja is forced to choose carefully who--and what--they believe in, and what their future should hold.

### Unnamed

**Genre**: Historical fantasy

Helga Yngvesdotter--also known as Helga Ravn (raven) due to her dark skin and black hair--is the daughter of the chieftain Yngve Agrarsson and the thrall Svanblau. Her mother died in childbirth when Helga was ten years old, so instead her father's second wife, Torun Hildingsdotter, raised her in faith.

It is spring of 997. Torun and Yngve are both dead, executed by King Olav Tryggvason of Norway for refusing conversion to Christianity. The farm is gone, and Helga swears vengeance. Her only companion is the blonde thrall Saga Joersdotter, and together they travel to earn the gods approval.

### The rest ...

Those three are the ones already plotted, but the plan is to write two more.

Enjoy April,

Marie
